Telemetry API: custom metrics (#12916)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/telemetry-api/index.md

---
title: Customizing Istio Metrics with Telemetry API
description: This task shows you how to customize the Istio metrics with Telemetry API.

> weight: 10

Reviewer: This weight will place this item as first on the page (https://deploy-preview-12916--preliminary-istio.netlify.app/latest/docs/tasks/observability/metrics/). Maybe you want it after the Customizing Istio Metrics, so then would be 26?

Author: I want to put this page first, cause Telemetry API is the recommended way.

keywords: [telemetry,metrics,customize]
owner: istio/wg-policies-and-telemetry-maintainers
test: no
---

Telemetry API has been in Istio as a first-class API for quite sometime now.

> Previously users had to configure metrics in the `telemetry` section of Istio configuration,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, users had to configure metrics in the `telemetry` section of the Istio configuration.
```

This task shows you how to customize the metrics that Istio generates with Telemetry API.

## Before you begin

[Install Istio](/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an application.

> Telemetry API can not work together with the `EnvoyFilter` way, for more details please checkout [this](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/39772).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Telemetry API can not work together with `EnvoyFilter`. For more details please checkout this [issue](https://github.com/istio/istio/issues/39772).
```

> From `1.18`, stats `EnvoyFilter` will not be installed by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with Istio version `1.18`, the stats `EnvoyFilter` will not be installed by default.
```

> For version before `1.18`, you should install with following configuration in `IstioOperator` configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For versions of Istio before `1.18`, you should install with following `IstioOperator` configuration:
```

    spec:
      metrics:
        - providers:
            - name: prometheus
          overrides:
            - disabled: true
              match:
                mode: CLIENT_AND_SERVER
                metric: REQUEST_COUNT
    {{< /text >}}

1. Disable `REQUEST_COUNT` metrics for client by following configuration:

    {{< text yaml >}}
    apiVersion: telemetry.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Telemetry
    metadata:
      name: remove-client
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      metrics:
        - providers:
            - name: prometheus
          overrides:
            - disabled: true
              match:
                mode: CLIENT
                metric: REQUEST_COUNT
    {{< /text >}}

1. Disable `REQUEST_COUNT` metrics for server by following configuration:

    {{< text yaml >}}
    apiVersion: telemetry.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Telemetry
    metadata:
      name: remove-server
      namespace: istio-system
    spec:
      metrics:
        - providers:
            - name: prometheus
          overrides:
            - disabled: true
              match:
                mode: SERVER
                metric: REQUEST_COUNT
    {{< /text >}}

> ## Custom metric reporting interval

Author: ok, I will revert this part first.

---
title: Customizing Istio Metrics with Telemetry API
description: This task shows you how to customize the Istio metrics with Telemetry API.
weight: 10
keywords: [telemetry,metrics,customize]
owner: istio/wg-policies-and-telemetry-maintainers
test: no
---

Telemetry API has been in Istio as a first-class API for quite sometime now.
Previously users had to configure metrics in the `telemetry` section of Istio configuration,
This task shows you how to customize the metrics that Istio generates with Telemetry API.

## Before you begin

[Install Istio](/docs/setup/) in your cluster and deploy an application.
Telemetry API can not work together with the `EnvoyFilter` way.
From `1.18`, stats `EnvoyFilter` will not be installed by default.
For version before `1.18`, you should install with following configuration in `IstioOperator` configuration:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    defaultConfig:
      extraStatTags:
        - source_x
        - destination_x
  values:
    telemetry:
      enabled: true
      v2:

>         enabled: false

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the PR!  To help readers understand the configuration here, in the paragraph above, can you add an explanation of why telemetry.v2.enabled is set as false?
